---
layout: post
title: Obsession to build something BIG
comments: true
---

I’ve been obsessed to build something great since the start of bachelor studies. At first, there wasn’t much of a craze, as I had no skills and there wasn’t much that I can do. But, as I kept diving in, this obsession of mine to build something great, something that may go viral, is being heightened. This article [How Alexis Ohanian Built a Front Page of the Internet](http://www.inc.com/magazine/201206/christine-lagorio/alexis-ohanian-reddit-how-i-did-it.html) from last night was the great source of inspiration. I have been looking for the ideas, since my under-graduation but why am I not there, why haven’t I done something till now? You may ask. Well there were certain challenges that I had to face or to put it the other way what were the excuses that I had back then. Some of them are listed here. You may steal one if you like ;)

#Lack of Skills and Guidance
Initially, I had the lack of skills and guidance due to which, I wasn’t able to do much. It wasn’t even clear until the 4th or 5th semester that how they work in industry, for example I didn’t even know that you can decide either web development, graphics designing, desktop application development etc as a profession. As you can see from my [first portfolio](http://stork.site50.net/), I was into everything ..be it Graphics Designing, Web Designing, Web Development, Game Development and Desktop Application Development. It may seem funny but I wanted to learn everything that crossed my ear those days. Just so you know, even back then I was into everything because I used to think every one must know everything, though I was always interested in web development more.

Lack of skills and guidance was a huge monster in my way to make something great. I am glad, I got over it by the end of 5th semester and I was pretty clear what I wanted to do in future and that’s when the adventure started. I had a long way to go and there was much to learn.

#Busy Schedule
I was a student back then due to which I had burden of university and also I was working in part time as a web developer at Digitalsofts plus I had been busy trying to hone my skills and was doing side projects as a practice and it wasn’t suitable for me to start working on some huge personal project as it would have affected my studies, my job and my personal practice as well, so I postponed that for later.

#Lack of good ideas
Back then, I had a little or no experience working in the market and the ideas that came to mind were usually “immature” ones. It may seem funny but, after thinking and thinking finally some idea would popup in my mind and I would try harder not to share it with any one so that my idea might not get stolen :P and when I searched over it to make sure if it is a unique one and thats when I had to face this heartbreaking moment finding out that there already exists a similar project. For example, let me share some of those “silly” ideas with you people:
* “Build some link sharing website” Whoa! what a great idea, it is surely the one that’s going to make me rich! I thought to my self :P. I even named the project, “linkoo”. I thought to do some research before starting working on it and when I searched, I came across Reddit (notice the guy in the video above, Alexis Ohanin the founder of Reddit) and this was a huge and most popular one. I dropped the idea, as I was in no mood to get in fight with the big guys, so let them do what they are doing until I get in the mood to fight :D

* “Build a web based application that’d allow it’s users to sync between their Google Drive, Skydrive and Dropbox account”. Meet [Cloud HQ](https://www.cloudhq.net/), these guys are doing much more than that. Though, I think it was a great idea and I have it in my “list of pending projects” and plan on working over it as soon as I get time. If I make it, chances are it may float if I throw a completely free version (cloud HQ is a paid one) into the market plus I think it would be a great project for practice.

* Create an application plus browser extension that would allow the users to save chunks of websites into their account i.e. allow the user copy the text, create a snapshot of some part of the webpage, bookmark links to the webpages etc that they visit and save them into his account. I thought to name these collections scrapbooks, a user may create multiple scrapbooks. The scrapbooks may help the user in their research work etc. The inspiration behind was; I, as a student, during my research work etc would create an MS Word Document or a text file in which I would save the chunks from the websites that I was interested in. Now I may accidentally remove these files, they may get corrupted, I may forget the document that I created at my PC at home and I wanted that collection in my university to complete my research etc. To aid myself and the other students in all this, I thought to develop this application and I named  it “ScrapedIt”. But again as expected, I searched it and found it at. It was [Evernote](https://evernote.com/)

* Now I can extend the list as much as I want but the above said projects were some that I really liked and I was much positive about their outcome.

Finding an existing solution to a problem wasn’t the only thing that kept me from developing these applications. The other reason to drop these ideas off was the size of these projects. I didn’t want to work on something so big in scope and leave that incomplete and at the end, I may have nothing in my portfolio that I could show plus as I mentioned before my skills was a huge limitation at that time. So I had to work on something small in size and the one that may aid me in my learning process at that time, instead of “making me famous”.

#Current Status
Now, it’s about ~3.5 years since that and I have overcome all the challenges that I had. Having the professional experience of 1 year working as a full stack web developer and ~1 year personal working experience, I have got the skills that I need in order to build something any kind of web related project. While working professionally, learning in the process, being a part “Experiment, Fail, Learn, Repeat Cycle” I am confident of my skill set and abilities that may aid me in developing something that may work. I have completed my graduation and after the job hours, I have got all the time in the world which I can use to work on my personal projects. For the ideas part, I do have some ideas and have been constantly looking for more i.e. comparatively a better one.

Also, what I’ve been waiting for, is the clearance from university i.e. I have yet to submit the Final Year Project. As soon as I submit my FYP and I am free, I will start working on “something big”. Until then, keep checking my [Github Profile](http://github.com/kamranahmedse) as I plan on making small open source libraries/projects etc side by side while I am busy with my FYP.